Hello this is Kiril from for Expo dot com.
And welcome to the 17th tutorial on em kill for for beginners.
Frankly I think that the word beginners is not really that relevant anymore and that's because we've
studied so much and we've actually learned so much we've learned how to code and Corum kill for We've
learned how to design basic algorithmic trading strategies and we've even successfully sent our first
orders through an algorithmic trading strategy and personally to me that means quite a lot when studying
a new programming language.
We'll probably keep the word beginners just because it's part of the course title.
But I really do hope that you are noticing progress and you can feel how you're getting better and better
and better with every tutorial that we have.
And in today's tutorial we're going to be studying a quite interesting and quite important topic at
the same time and it's called Fail-Safe programming and simply put Fail-Safe programming is a set of
techniques that allows you to design your code in such a way that will allow you to prevent and account
for any errors that can possibly occur.
And it is always imperative for us to program a hour or two for us to code our programs in such a way
that they don't contain any inherent errors or bugs within the code itself but sometimes programs run
in such an environment that will cause can cause potential errors.
Regardless of how well the program the code is
how good the code is inside the program itself.
And let's be honest here we working in the foreign exchange market and it is very dynamic it is very
fast.
It can be very volatile at times and all of those things mean that the programs are often put to their
limits put to the test and sometimes things can not go as planned and your program has to account for
that your program has to make sure that whatever happens on the market it has a response and it has
failsafe mechanism put in place because this is very important because at the end of the day we're working
with money here we're working with thousands or even tens of thousands of dollars of people's money
of investors money and we have to make sure that we it is our responsibility to take you to show you
care and make sure that our our programs have responds to anything that occurs in the market in order
to protect this money from any potential
mis happenings in the programs or during the runtime of the program.
So that's basically what we're going to be studying today.
And before we do go ahead with that we'll quick recap on what we talked about in tutorial 16 and 15.
So in total 16 we had to look at functions and we understood how functions are structured and what exactly
they do that they can have inputs and they have outputs.
We even built a function of our own which was called my addition and basically just added two values
together and returned the result.
The bottom line of this Tauriel or take away from this Tauriel is the fundamental
structure behind any function and that is that it has it always a function always has a name.
Then after the name it is followed by brackets within which you should list the input parameters into
the function in this case it was just and B two integers separated by a comma and then the function
always has not always but often has a return value and then that return value can be assigned to a variable
of your choice and it can then later be used further down the track in your program.
And that's that's basically what everything we needed from this tutorial into turtle 15 Choe 15 was
the one where we made a major breakthrough and we sent our first successful order using and algorithmic
trading system.
And this is the line of code that allowed us to send the order and we did use the order send function
in that case.
So what we're going to do now is we'll just copy this part between the two comments.
The main part of the code.
And so we'll paste it into totals 17.
That way we can close 15 and 16 and just focus on this one now.
So first thing we need to remember is we have to add a property up here at the top
and it's called properties a script show inputs and as you can remember we need to add this property
because we are working off a script here and scripts and am killed for I originally are designed to
show that popup window when you launch them which allows which arm allows a trader to set the inputs.
However in this particular script we do have inputs which we want the trader to be able to modify and
so therefore we do need that pop up window so we have to put that property back in place.
So we'll go ahead and compile that as you can see we are getting that same warning that we used to get
into 2015 and that this warning is related to the order sent function.
It's telling us the return value of order send should be checked.
And that's something that we're not doing at this stage.
So we'll look into that just now.
But before we do I would like to say that we it is time that we delete these two lines we hear these
two alerts because the main purpose of these alerts was to tell the trader what values what take profit
and Stop-Loss level values had been calculated and now there now because these two values will be actually
reflected in the order that we send these alerts and not reason that is necessary.
So go ahead and delete them.
And now we're going to deal with this warning so to deal with the warning we need to find out what was
going on with that return value of orders sent.
So what I'd like you to do is just highlight or to send the word and click a one on your keyboard.
This will bring up an M kill for reference which describes the function in more detail and just taken
out of this that you can do that with any function or keyword.
I'm kill for you just highlight it and click up one and you will get them killed for reference which
can help you out sometimes.
So right away we can notice that the orders and function has quite a lot of inputs.
And what we should be fairly comfortable with these by now because we have used them before to send
our first order and I'll just remind you that we use these first few.
And we know in the last three because the last three were not really vital to us and they do have default
values which we were totally comfortable with.
So we just limited ourselves to the first few.
At this stage and the order center function also has an integer value that it returns.
So if we scroll down and we look for that we'll see a return value section and here text reads returns
number of ticket assigned to the order by the trade server or minus one if it's if it fails.
So we don't need this other part that's just going a bit into more detail and so here what we should
focus on is that the return value is the number of the ticket assigned to the order or it is minus one.
If it fails.
So let's quickly put that into our code as a commentary so we can just see it in front of our eyes here
will just write order and can turn ticket number or minus one if order send failed
so there we go.
We know that this function will return an integer which will be one of those two.
So some account for that down ticket.
Would create a integer variable ticket.
We all want to say anything right away but we will assign the return value of order sent.
Now we know that ticket is either an actual ticket number of an order that was sent and that has been
created and as an integer greater than zero or it is minus 1.
If if orders send failed if all of this failed or here.
Then the ticket value will be minus one.
So no let's use this variable ticket to create a failsafe mechanism and that basically means that we
have to branch out of code to account for any situation possible and then means we have to account for
this situation and we have to account for the situation.
So we know what to do.
In either case or the program knows what to do.
So if it is less than zero they will do something and I'm writing less than zero here.
This is basically the same as saying If a ticket is minus one.
And that's that value but them kill for coding convention for checking this particular value of the
order send function which is if it is less than zero.
So we basically check if it's less than zero and that the only possible option is when it's minus one
is just dumb just the way it has historically developed.
So if it is less than zero then we have to tell the trader that something went wrong and that there
has been an error.
So what we will do is we will send an alert or a message to the traders screen saying error.
And that basically prompts a trader to have a look and understand try to understand what happened and
what went wrong.
Then if you remember from the if and else tutorials maybe we can branch out a code in the other direction
by using the else operator.
And that means that if so this block of code will be executed if it is less than zero and whatever is
within these brackets this block of code will be executed in every other case.
So basically if it is not less than zero.
And in this particular instance we're just going to tell the trader that everything is OK and that they
are actually their ticket number.
They're taking their order has been created and we'll actually tell them their ticket number is.
So here we wrote some text.
Now we are going to concatenate the ticket number by first turning it into a string.
We learned how to do that in one of the first tutorials so we'll quickly compile that and see no errors
or warnings.
And now we'll give that a go and see how it works in the terminal.
So there we go.
That's all terminal.
And now if we look for tutorial 17 if we drag and drop we're only changing the parameters.
Click OK.
As you can see the order has been created by order take profits stop loss and it's telling us the message
just saying your ticket number is 1 7 0 7 1 9 7.
Or not.
So let's go ahead and check that this is the correct number down here in the trade tab.
We can see all of the orders that are currently currently exist and there's only one order by order
for your adult or sizes one lot.
And it's Coleman is my first order so that's a hint that that is probably order.
And now let's go look at the order number.
And over here the order number is 1 7 0 7 1 9 7 0 9 which is exactly the same as in our alert statement
and that basically sums it up.
That that means that our code has created an order and it checked for an error.
There was no error.
And it just told the trader that their order has been created and their ticket numbers such and such.
So that is how we create failsafe mechanisms in programming.
And this is a basic example and it does it is pretty simple in essence.
It just it can just get a bit might be more like them.
They can be a bit more code if a bit more failsafe mechanisms are required in a larger code but that's
basically the idea behind it just to account for any possible outcome of trading operations and other
operations that you do in your code.
So I hope that was useful and that will definitely help us to progress faster going forward.
That's going to be enough for today's.
Have a play around with that and see see how you can use that in your code and I'll see you at the next
Tauriel.
Until then happy coding.